# Concept Sequence Tagging for a Movie Domain
2nd project of Language Understanding Systems, Fall Semester 2017, University of Trento.

The project consist in building a model for concept sequence tagging for a Movie Domain.
The task is similar to [first project](https://github.com/davidepedranz/lus_project_1),
but this time we use Conditional Random Fields instead of Finite State Transducers.
All results are discussed in the [report](report.pdf) file.

## Repository Structure
The repository is organized in 2 main folders: `report` and `code`.
The `report` folder contains the LaTeX report source files, the `code` folder contains the scripts used to train and test the models, plus some utilities used to parse the results and compute statistics.

### Model
The `code/model` folder contains the [CRF++](https://taku910.github.io/crfpp/) template files.
The [code/scripts/run.sh](code/scripts/run.sh) script can be used to train a given model, for example

```bash
./code/scripts/run.sh 03_advanced/10
```

The script will automatically create the `code/computations` folder.
Inside this folder you will find a folder for each model you trained.

### Genetic Algorithm
The [code/scripts/genetic.py](code/scripts/genetic.py) file implements a genetic algorithm to automatically
select the best features for the CRF model.
The script is written in Python3 and requires the [DEAP](https://github.com/DEAP/deap) library to work.

By default, the script required an initial population inside the `code/scripts/initial_population` folder.
Please create this folder before running the script and populate it with some models trained generated by hand.
Please make sure to invoke the script from the `code/scripts` folder.

## Licence
The model source code is licences under the MIT license. A copy of the license is available in the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.
The LaTeX sources and the report are licenced under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) License.
